We will be making the multi user real - time chat page using javascript.

Nothin g advanced just basics and it willl be running on your own server on your Herrroku account, or whatever pretty much everything.

we are going to dig into Node js, I ll be going through quick overview on how node modules work...

We will connect our sever with the browser for doing the real time chat..


Key things that we will focus on 
Backend
+
Frontend
+
Deployment

Backend
We will be using Node Js  and Faye which is a library which we can use essentially on the backend and the frontend to do the browser to server kind of applications.
We can also use socket io which is similar to faying.


Front End:
HTML
plan old Javascript and a little bit of jquery makes in .
We can put a real dynammic HTML template directly into HTML.
And Faye


Deployment:
We are going to use Herokku:


What is Node :
Node is essentially a node running environ ment running on Javascript.
A kind of javascript engine developed by google which is fast.

Node is similar to the v8 engine but it is more than that, it has got a standard library  and a package managers npm and provides better organisation.

Ryan Dahl created Node js


SERVER SIDE
===========
Think Ruby, Python, PHP etc.
Not stuff happening directly in the browser on the client end but code
running on a a server on your machine .

Why javascript?
It is really fast..
Single language front end and back now that browser apps are a big deal.


What is node:
Node is single threaded
No locking needed
NO computer science degree


Node is event driven, unlike eary javascriptajax request which is syncrounous.


A simple intro tp the node command line...


Make server.js as instructed 

run nodemon server.js

run curl http://127.0.0.1:8000

change the text to html and add res.write(...html...);

add the setTimeout function

install faye system...

try moduletest with mymod

try mymoduletest2 

now lets get over with the faye the pub serve messaging it is essentially a system where you can publish your messages 
in to the server or we can subscibe the file to receive it..

REAL WORK

1.) Make faye_server.js...It allows people to sit in the middle and allow people to message coming from it
and it is simple

create http and faye var

Faye will attach to the http library

run fayeserver
 make faye_client.js we notice that nothing is happening so we need to find out the next part of equation 
 that is subscribe to the messages channel


make another client 2:: run client 
and keep the content of client same as that of the client this acts as a receiver and is simple to use.

make an html file called barebones.html 
and create a 'click me' button for in it 
write a script for click event :: function is to publish the messages(just like the faye_client.js function publish )
and now run the local server in the background (either the python  simple HTTPserver or node.js's http-server). open another tab in the same window and run the fayE_client2.js... this is done to run the receive messages from the browser.
run the local server in the brwoser(http one) and type barebones.html-click the button- it can be noticed that the messages are received in the fay_client2.js session .
now this is the one way of sending the messages - now edit the barebones and add subscribe function just like the faye_client2.js run the server again and now open two browser windows with same location
and press click me on both sides, we can see the "Hello World " message on both the sides.

edit barebones and put the placeholder...
change the publish text to #userinput (one entered in the browser...)
change the client function when enter text vanishes...

paste the contents of index.html in the barebones file

create a full server file and wwhich has node-dtatic which will inititalise any file in current directory...in static wa. but before that install node-static


host on heroku